[Music]
hey here's mine
I'm dr. Becky and welcome back to
another sty news for November 2018 and
quite appropriately the moon looks
absolutely amazing outside my window
right now when I'm filming so why don't
we start with what you can see in the
sky and this month in November
[Music]
so couple planets look out for this
month's obviously the nights are drawing
in in the northern hemisphere and we're
actually getting later and later
sunrises but it doesn't mean that those
was on our way to work early in the
morning actually get in with a chance of
seeing Mercury and Venus before sunrise
so Venus is incredibly incredibly bright
at the minute just before sunrise and
sort of in the eastern sky pre-dawn but
as we get into December mercury is also
going to join it and so that would be
just or just below Venus if you sort of
trapped Venus down towards sort of where
the sun's gonna rise in the southeast
you should be able to spot mercury and
that's gonna get easier though
throughout December so we're on about
December sort of 15th there's one make
sure you all sort of get X furthest
position away from the Sun so it'll be
highest in the sky before the Sun rises
and it's too bright to see them anymore
but it better than I think to spot both
Mercury and Venus like whilst you're in
the first the photos of the advent
calendar this December now brought about
the same time of the month so about
December inch is when you need to look
out for the Geminids meteor shower so
this means your shower is really
consistent so it's a great world for
beginners to start with if you've never
stayed up to watch the meteor shower
before cool thing is that Gemini is
actually rising you know early evening
at this time of year so it's a nice time
to be able to go out not too late to try
and spot some meteors there's also gonna
be about 250 meteors an hour that's not
for a minute
it's you're a really good chance of
buying one we do need to go outside
preferably lie down on the floor if you
can but make sure you know wrapped up
warm and everything and just stare at
the sky huh all the meteors are gonna
look like they're coming from the
constellation of Gemini which is sort of
just above a Ryan but if you look
elsewhere in the sky that's when you're
going to see them so maybe if you find
Gemini and have put your head top of
your head to the J where Gemini is at a
point that's where Gemini and then just
look up to the western sky you might get
lucky and see a couple of meteors the
best musical meteor shower is in the
northern
but you will still get a good view in
the southern hemisphere it's just Jeff
and I won't be as high in the sky so you
might not be able to see as many per
hours in the board members fear okay to
the other exciting thing that's
happening and this home again it's in
December around about mid month is that
there might be trying to see a comet
with the naked eye so no telescopes or
anything needed to be able to spot it
this is comment 46 P vert Tannen and
everyone is very very excited about this
because it's what's called a hyperactive
comment so it gives off a lot more water
vapor than normal comments do as it gets
closer and closer to the Sun and so you
can end up with this really big like
very distinctive comment sort of like
tail coming off it so people are very
excited that that's gonna be visible
with the naked eye in mid-december and
then once you get binoculars on it you
might be able to see that sort of
interesting shape so it's predicted to
get as bright as about three magnitude
which means you should be able to see in
the naked eye even in sort of city
suburbs won't quite be as bright as say
one of the planets like Mars in the sky
but it will still be incredibly bright
and so December 15th 16th is when it's
due to get closest to the Sun and at
that point it's gonna be the
constellation of Taurus just below the
Pleiades cluster so if you find a Ryan
and find Orion's belt and you sort of
follow the stars up you should end up in
Taurus and you should be able to try and
spot where this comet is but you go
online find some star maps you'll get a
sort of detailed position of where it is
in the day you try to look for it and
interestingly this was the comment that
the Rosetta mission was actually
supposed to go to like three years ago
but they actually missed the launch
window for that and ended up going to
67p churyumov-gerasimenko it might just
end up looking a little bit like ad
abuse star though rather than having
that really extended cometary tail these
things on your tour easily difficult to
predict but if it does send out that it
puts on a show please please send me
some pictures if you do manage to see it
I'd love to see them either tweet them
to me or pop a link in the comments
below and I might put them in next
month's videos oh okay so time to head
back to earth with pump and see what's
been happening in the news this month
with astronomy in space
[Music]
the first thing I want to start with let
us please mourn for a moment the loss of
the Kepler spacecraft you'll remember
that I said last month that it had a
gyroscope failure well this month
unfortunately it was retired by NASA
after nine years of detecting over 2,600
exoplanets which is absolutely
incredible
turned out eventually it just ran out of
fuel the poor thing and so we it will no
longer be detecting exoplanets at all we
do still have the test spacecraft that's
just launched that will be carrying on
the legacy of Kepler detects planets but
really do have to mourn the passing of
something that has apps that you've
revolutionized the field of exoplanet
studies you know 2600 of them the
detected that is not an incredible feat
but we should expect more discoveries
from the last day to dump that it gave
out as well so we would still be hearing
from everybody who's working with Kepler
data for a long time yet
speaking of exoplanets though we found
one in like the nearest single star
system to Zonk
so this is my most Awkward barnard
started meeting in walk know because the
Alpha Centauri and Proxima Centauri the
closest stars the Sun right yes but
they're sort of binary and triple star
systems so nothing like our own solar
system so baaaaad star is just a single
star system though just like the Sun so
any planets we find around there are
going to be very similar to planets in
our own solar system people have been
searching for planetary balance after
years because it's like the closest
single star to the Sun and not found
anything but the people in this paper
that was published this month it was
from rebus at AU and they found by
taking all of the archived data from the
past 20 years from lots and lots of
different telescopes and observational
surveys they found if you merge all that
data action there is a planet in there
and it's what we call the super earth so
it's about three times the mass of the
earth and it has a period of about two
hundred and thirty three days around its
star it's actually orbiting very close
to what's called this snow line which is
sort of when all the volatile compounds
like
and water and all of the carbon things
that you need for life they all sort of
condensed and freeze out it's a little
bit cold this planet but there is
something we need going on with its
orbit they've found sort of like a
little perturbation which suggests that
might actually another planet in that
system that we haven't detected similar
to how sort of Neptune and Uranus is
orbit affected by Pluto and like quite
the Kuiper belt so there could be
another planet in this system making it
some of our closest single star system
at about six light-years away which is
pretty cool so another thing that I want
to talk about that
I am surprised didn't make it to the
press this month I don't understand why
this is really cool the Milky Way has a
new dwarf satellite galaxy that we have
found
so suppose super diffuse galaxies ever
found is about three times the size of a
full moon in the sky but it's four
hundred thousand light years away and
it's the lowest surface brightness
object we've ever seen so it's amazing
that we even be able to Texas so it was
found in daya dates and I'm Gaia it's a
satellite that's been launched to map
all of the positions and properties and
motions of stars in our own Milky Way's
we can get a proper 3d map of where
stars are how they're moving around the
galaxy and the proper 3d map and so in
this data they looked for these ultra
diffuse objects by looking for stars
that had the same properties that were
moving with the same velocity relative
to the Sun and were clustered together
as well in space but weren't part of any
other part of the Milky Way and they
found this object in a constellation
called an Thalia which is in the
southern hemisphere and they've dubbed
it unclear - so now all the month way
has you know it's local group or I'm
dromeda really far away and then it's
other dwarf galaxies the Large
Magellanic Cloud the small Magellanic
Cloud and Emily a - all right so the big
story this month was whether the moon
Muar is an alien spacecraft so for those
of you who don't know a Momo is an
object that was detected back in October
t17 by the pan-starrs telescope in
Hawaii on Mauna Kea now once I sell coke
usually searches for asteroids and it
tracks asteroids motions through the sky
anything that's gonna move that might be
a potential threat to earth so it notice
this object that was moving incredibly
incredibly fast that just a loop around
the Sun and was then moving away from us
and the observations showed that after
you tracked it for a couple of days and
sort of wiped out its orbit that it
clearly come from outside the solar
system and it had a completely different
orbit what we know for comets and
asteroids and now this idea of sort of
interstellar objects that travel between
star systems some have been posited for
a while because when you have a star
form and then you get this sort of disc
around it that planets are gonna form
from planetary formation model say that
you'd throw out so much junk in that
formation process just because so many
bits of rock are flying around and
interacting with each other and getting
their orbits all perturb so that things
fly off in space and so the idea was we
should be seeing hundreds of these
things so this was the Third's we
thought of its kind that had been
detected so there was a messenger to the
solar system that was gonna head back
outwards again and this thing was really
only bright for about two weeks because
it was moving so at fast away from Earth
after it sort of looped around the Sun
and gone out there was just a race for
observations to try and figure out what
the hell it was before it disappeared
from the solar system so we're gonna
have a coma like a comet goes you know a
tail what you get from the outgassing
from going around the Sun it didn't have
a halo like an asteroid did so it didn't
really look like anything in our own
solar system that we knew of which sort
of gave more presidents this theory that
it was actually from outside our solar
system and then also further observation
showed there was a really weird shape it
was sort of really elongated these were
like 200 meters but like 20 meters from
sort of the different images that we
were getting that showed that it was
sort of rotating but not rotating
smoothly like the earth does it was sort
of tumbling it didn't have any set
period of rotation that was smooth so
there was this paper back in July 2018
Kelly that should have combined all of
the data that we had from the kind of
France Hawaii telescope the VLT and
Chewie and some Hubble Space Telescope
data to try and figure out you know what
speed was this thing moving at and they
actually detected that it had a sudden
increase in its acceleration that wasn't
you - just gravitational forces around
the Sun you know from it sort of like a
slingshot around the Sun now as expected
with comets because you know when they
out gas when the ice melts you're
getting close to the Sun and they do
that big outgassing coma tail that kind
of acts like a little bit of a booster
or a thruster and it sort of gives them
a little bit of a kick in their
acceleration but we'd already heard that
this thing is like a comment at all
so that would be weird if it had done
that so the paper that came out this
month was from big Lee and Loeb in
Harvard and they were stopped trying to
explain this boost in acceleration and
so most of the paper is devoted to
working out whether solar radiation
pressure could explain this acceleration
in a moment now solar radiation pressure
comes to the fact that you have photons
coming from the Sun that have energy and
therefore momentum so when they hit an
object they can transfer their energy
and they momentum do that object and
give it a little speed kick a little bit
of acceleration and so they tried to
work out whether there could be enough
energy from the Sun hitting a room over
to give it that boost in acceleration
that had been seen and so they said yes
it would have enough energy but the
thing that it was hitting would have to
be incredibly gonna be big and also
really really thin to be able to
transfer all that energy and momentum to
it that's not like anything that we've
seen our own solar system comments and
asteroids don't look like that obviously
a Momo is not from our solar system so
maybe it doesn't maybe that's why we've
been getting those weird images that we
think that it's sort of really long and
thin and sort of tumbling over itself
maybe it's because it's nothing like
we've ever seen here but the authors of
this paper said while the things that we
know on earth that need theorized our
photon light sails so a photon light
sail is a sort of theoretical way that
we might
travel to other planets so we would
harness the energy of the Sun we would
have this huge big sail that photons
from the Sun would hit into it and
transfer energy to it so that you could
move a spacecraft faster and so they're
saying that you know maybe a boa boa is
a technical article relic of some other
alien civilization that's perhaps room
for martin about it's been kicked out of
whatever orbit it was supposed to be in
perhaps it was like a transport cargo
that was using a light sail to travel
around maybe it is actually an alien
probe that's been sent to investigate
our solar system and they're traveling
using one of these big light sails so
this is all pure speculation you know
there's no way that we could prove that
it was aliens a moment is far too far
away now for its trash it was all of it
and see it and prove that it was aliens
it's completely speculative it's much
more likely that it is one of these
objects that's been thrown out from a
solar system formation nearby perhaps we
can even trace sort of its direction of
what solar system it may have come from
if it did that would be really really
cool we just have to keep an eye out for
more and more of these objects perhaps
you might see more of these interstellar
objects that are thrown out from sort of
a star system and planet formation
because through models there should be
thousands of these objects that get
thrown out every time there is planet
formation around the star so there could
be conscious passing through the solar
system right now but they could just be
too faint for us to see if we just got
lucky here with a Momo to actually find
it but even if it was aliens they didn't
exactly stop did they they're actually
physically accelerating away from us
so no need to panic I think we'll be
fine
so bringing it roughly definitely back
down to earth now and speaking of Hawaii
as well that has to ourselves hope one
piece of news that came out from this
month is about the thirty meter
telescope this is due to be constructed
on top of Mauna Kea in Hawaii
the Hawaii Supreme Court ruled four to
one in favor of the TMT
getting constructed now for those who
haven't heard the backstory here those
nice telescope was due for construction
in Hawaii a couple
years back but it's been met with a lot
of resistance from locals because Mauna
Kea is a sacred mountain to them so
market is literally the best spot in the
world for astronomy you are so far away
from light pollution it is 4,000 meters
above sea level so you've got much less
atmosphere to look for the humidity up
there is non-existent and so there's no
water vapor that's going to disturb your
observation so the seeing is absolutely
fantastic it is the best place in the
world to do what shot me from now so to
be telescope is the next class of
telescopes that we're gonna build it is
three times bigger than anything that we
have built before and it's gonna see
things you know nine times more detail
than the Keck telescopes which are
currently on Medicare so it makes sense
to build the best new telescope in the
best spot for Shari except when that
obviously interferes with someone's
cultural practices now there's no legal
limit for how many telescopes that we
could build on Mauna Kea that's never
been set in stone
the problem that Manocchio is part of a
seeded land that the Americans basically
forcibly took away from the natives when
they annexed Hawaii so there is a lot of
cultural and political history there
that is so important to recognize so
it's an incredibly difficult situation
of course as an astronomer I want this
thing to be built but not if it's gonna
interfere with someone's cultural
practices that go back you know
millennia so what the Hawaii Supreme
Court have ruled is that yes they can go
ahead construction can start but three
of the 13 telescopes that are currently
on top of the mountain have to be
decommissioned and so therefore when it
more effectively sharing the mountain
with the locals and not interfering with
their cultural practices in any way lots
of political drama around this but
construction can go ahead which if
you're an astronomer is good news so
that's all I've got time for this month
remember to send me any pictures you get
this one on the comment or even the
meteor shower at Alex oh you'd love to
see them until next month I'm Doc Becky
over and out
you